# My First Portfolio

This first portfolio generated with HTML and CSS helped introduce me to manipulating forms, color and styling, as well as learning about basic web page design. The Bootstrap CSS Framework was integral to this process. Great importance was placed on learning and successfully utilizing Bootstrap's grid system, with its manipulation of the building blocks of containers, rows, and columns. Properly utilized, this system allows for legible and attractive rendering of web pages on a variety of devices, especially as mobile platforms become increasingly important.


## The Process

Screenshots were provided that showed the expected layout we were to accomplish creating three pages of a personal Portfolio, using HTML and CSS with Bootstrap. These consisted of Portfolio, Contact, and Index pages, each rendered in three different sizes, showing the responsiveness we were to capture in our projects. These page sizes are 400, 768 and 992 pixels wide, respectively. All pages required a Navbar, to contain a Name and nav links to the other pages (these links are replaced by a 'hamburger' in the smaller sizes), and a footer. The Portfolio page contains five images each 350 x 350 pixels. In the largest size, the images are arranged in a container in two rows of two images each, and a final single image aligned left underneath. In the two smaller page sizes, they are shown stacked in a single vertical row. The Index page contains a smaller field within a container that has a heading: About Me, aligned left, a hairline, then an image aligned left, with text flowing to its right and beneath. This field becomes narrower and more vertical in the smaller versions. Finally,the Contact page has a similarly-sized field and layout; here, beneath a "Contact" header, there is a form where one can input Name, Email, and a Message (which has a slightly larger input box. Finally, there is a Submit buttom at the bottom of the form. All three of the content fields are white, and sit on a light-gray background with the repeating outline of a vaguely simian animal outlined in a slightly-darker gray.

The challenge was to format these pages so that they would dynamically reproduce the layouts as they became smaller using only Bootstrap-enhanced HTML and CSS: to choose the correct Bootstrap components and employ the grid system properly, without resorting to media queries, if possible. I experimented with several Components until I found ones that came closest to the supplied models. Even more experimentation went into finding the right row and column combinations that would respond appropriately to the reductions in size. Lorem ipsum text and stock images were then replaced with images and text that are the basis of an actual personal Portfolio.

I found this to be an excellent introduction to the world of web-based design and the concept of 'responsiveness' on several different device platforms. 
